Do you own a car, or a motorbike, or some other type of vehicle?
If you do, you realize that it brings with it a serious responsibility.
Initially, it costs quite a bit of money to buy a vehicle, but also you need to keep on spending money to keep it running.
In addition to that, there is another serious responsibility that comes with owning a vehicle.
And that is the responsibility to maintain it safely, so that it doesn't break down, doesn't cause accidents, and most importantly doesn't cause loss of life.
Of course, if you have a maintenance program, you're not just going to wait for something to fall off the vehicle, or perhaps for it just to stop.
But rather ahead of time, you have to have a checklist to see that everything is working properly.
Well, in a similar way, spiritually speaking, each one of us needs a maintenance program with regard to our spirituality.
What sort of maintenance program are we talking about?
Well, let's take our Bibles, please, and turn to the second book of Corinthians chapter 13 and verse 5.
Second Corinthians chapter 13 and verse 5.
There it says, keep testing whether you are in the faith.
Keep proving what you yourselves are.
Or do you not recognize that Jesus Christ is in union with you unless you are disapproved?
So notice right in the beginning of that verse it says, keep testing, keep proving.
What does that really mean?
Well, if you look at this study note associated with verse 5, it tells us this.
One lexicon states that the word Paul here uses for testing means to endeavour to discover the nature or character of something.
They could discover the nature of their own spiritual standing by comparing their daily conduct, attitudes and decisions with the sacred truths they were taught.
Doing such testing would help them to keep proving that they were true Christians.
For proving, Paul uses a word that could refer to testing whether something is genuine as one might test metals.
Do we see the point of what this verse tells us?
As Christians, we need to keep testing continually that we are in the faith.
But now, what does this word faith mean in this context?
It's not just referring to the quality of faith, but rather it involves all the Christian teachings that we find in God's Word of the Bible.
So having that in mind, keep testing, keep proving, really means that we need to look at ourselves and see if we're really living up to what the Bible tells us to do.
Now that's a very serious maintenance program.
But just as we do a maintenance program for a vehicle and we might have a checklist, is there a checklist that we can use when we're testing and proving that we're in the faith?
Yes, there is. We can say there are three things.
First of all, we need to ask heart-searching questions about our relationship with Jehovah.
That's the first point. Ask the questions that will search through our heart.
Secondly, we have to answer honestly.
Yes, whatever we see is an answer to those questions, then we need to have a correct answer.
And then finally, we need to seek Jehovah's help in making whatever adjustments we need to make so that we can maintain a spirituality strong and in good standing so that our relationship with Jehovah is good.
So with that in mind, let's go back to the illustration we started with, a vehicle, a car or a motorbike.
If you were to compare our Christian faith or our belief, our conduct to a vehicle and the need to maintain it, what sort of things would you make as a comparison?
Well, perhaps the first thing we might think about is the engine.
You certainly need to make sure the engine works correctly because that's what gives the vehicle the power to keep moving.
So it's good for us to ask the question, what is it that moves us or motivates us so that we serve Jehovah acceptably?
Well, the answer is found in the scriptures, and if we turn together to the first book of Timothy, chapter four and verse eight.
That's first Timothy, chapter four and verse eight.
See if you can discern what it is that we could liken to the engine in a car.
It tells us, for physical training is beneficial for a little, but godly devotion is beneficial for all things as it holds promise of the life now and the life that is to come.
Did you see what the scripture tells us is so important, godly devotion.
But we need to understand what godly devotion is.
In fact, we also need to appreciate this beautiful expression in the New World translation.
Many other Bibles just simply translate this as godliness.
Godliness is beneficial or perhaps they say godly training or being religious or even one version says mental training.
But the New World translation captures the meaning of the original word here because you can train or program a robot to do a certain job.
But you can't program it to have godly devotion. Why not?
Because godly devotion involves how we feel about your hover.
It means our loyalty to him based on a heart full of love and appreciation.
So when it says godly devotion is important, it really involves why we do things, not just what we do.
Well, let's think back to our illustration of the vehicle and you want to test the engine.
What would you do to check the engine to see if it's okay?
Well, one thing you might do is keep an eye on the temperature gauge because if the engine is overheating, you know there's a problem.
Or perhaps you might check the oil to see if there's enough oil.
Or you may check to see if you've changed the oil regularly enough.
Or when the engine is idling, you might listen carefully to it to see if it's running smoothly or roughly.
And of course you'd be interested if there's any strange sounds or noises.
So that's the type of thing you would have on a checklist when you're trying to see if an engine is working properly.
Now, none of that applies to godly devotion, does it?
But what could be on our checklist for us to test godly devotion to see if it's healthy and strong or not?
Well, again, the Bible helps us.
If you turn with me this time to the book of Psalms, let's look at Psalm 40 and verse 8.
That's Psalm 40 and verse 8.
Here it tells us, to do your will, oh my God, is my delight.
And your law is deep within me.
Now, this is a test of our godly devotion. How so?
Well, we need to ask ourselves, is my service to God something that I really delight in or is it simply a chore?
Is it something that I do as a mere routine, something that I just keep on doing regularly,
but don't really have a strong desire to accomplish it?
Well, if we were thinking that our godly devotion was not so good, not so strong,
perhaps we were just doing things out of routine rather than for our love for Jehovah, we need to take action.
Just the same as if we heard that the engine had a knocking sound or if we saw that it was overheating.
And that's exactly what Jesus told the brothers back in the first century in the congregation in Ephesus.
Please turn with me to the book of Revelation 2.
And you'll remember in this section of the book of Revelation as a series of messages that Jesus gives different congregations.
Now, the first congregation mentioned is in Ephesus.
If you look at chapter 2 of Revelation, and if we glance through verses 2 and 3, what do you notice?
Well, Jesus says to the brothers, I know your deeds and your labor and endurance. That sounds good, doesn't it?
Then he goes on to say that they didn't tolerate bad men.
And then in verse 3, he mentions that they persevered, that they had not grown weary.
So what do we assume from these two verses?
That our brothers back then in the first century in the congregation in Ephesus were busy doing the work of Jehovah.
Yes, they were active, they weren't giving up.
But then what does Jesus say in verse 4?
Nevertheless, I hold this against you, that you have left the love you had at first.
Do we see the point?
Clearly, it shows us that Jehovah and Jesus are not just interested in what we do, but also why we do it.
Yes, they want us to serve our God, Jehovah, in a way that shows that we love Him and that we are loyal to Him.
Just the same as Jesus loves His Father and is loyal to Him.
And this is so important.
The Apostle Paul highlighted this, if you turn with me, please do 1 Corinthians chapter 13.
1 Corinthians chapter 13, and notice what Paul says under inspiration in verse 3.
And if I give all my belongings to feed others, and if I hand over my body so that I may boast, but I do not have love, I do not benefit at all.
Now, if we look across at this study note on this verse, notice that it says, speaking hypothetically, Paul says that,
even instead of love, such pride were his motive, he would give everything he owned to feed others, or would even die a martyr's death as a witness to the truth, but he would not benefit at all.
Isn't that food for thought?
So thinking about this expression, godly devotion, it's interesting that one Bible scholar defined the original word this way.
He said, it is a very practical awareness of God in every aspect of life.
So if we were to check our godly devotion, and we see that perhaps it's not really working as well as it should, maybe it needs maintenance.
What sort of maintenance would we give it?
Well, surely we would need to think of Jehovah more often every day to see him as part of our life.
Also meditating on what Jehovah has done for us builds up appreciation and love for him, and that motivates us to do what Jehovah wants us to do out of love.
Yes, our heart full of appreciation.
And of course, offering prayers regularly to Jehovah helps to strengthen that relationship.
So what have we learned so far in our discussion?
Well, just like the engine of a vehicle needs to be maintained, we need to be aware of whether or not it's operating correctly.
In a similar way, we need to ask ourselves honest questions, questions that search our hearts with regard to our godly devotion.
Is our service to Jehovah by simply on routine and a sense of duty? Do we view it just as a chore?
Or does our heart show that it's filled with appreciation and love for Jehovah?
Well, if we build up that appreciation and love, we can be sure that our godly devotion is good. Yes, it's well maintained.
So that's the first point of comparison that we'd like to make in the maintenance schedule for a vehicle and for our spirituality.
So let's think of another comparison, another very important part of any vehicle, the other breaks.
Now, when we think of the breaks, they're absolutely necessary, aren't they?
Because someone could jump in front of your vehicle, there could be someone who perhaps is coming too quickly and you have to avoid them and you need to use those breaks.
So what do you think we could compare the breaks to with regard to our service to Jehovah and our relationship with Him?
Well, the Bible gives us a clue. As we read Psalm 111, we'll see the answer to that question.
So as we turn there to Psalm 111, let's see what verse 10 tells us.
The fear of Jehovah is the beginning of wisdom.
All those observing His orders show good insight, His praise endures forever.
So do you see what could be likened to the breaks of a vehicle?
What is it that stops us from doing something that displeases Jehovah?
It's our fear of Jehovah.
So just as you need to maintain the breaks in a vehicle, we also need to make sure that our love for Jehovah and our fear of Jehovah is strong and well maintained.
Now, of course, we need to think, what do we mean by fear of Jehovah?
Do we mean shaking all the time, worried that He's going to do something wrong to us?
No. Perhaps we could liken it to a chef who has a razor sharp knife.
Now, this knife, when used properly, can help him to attain all sorts of wonderful things.
But if he misuses it, then he has a problem.
So in a similar way, if our relationship is strong with Jehovah, there's no need for us to be shaking in our boots as it were.
But rather, we need to remember always that Jehovah is with us.
And so a healthy fear of Jehovah means that we don't want to displease Him in any way.
So a fear of Jehovah helps us so that as we're moving along, if anything comes our way, we're ready to stop if we shouldn't engage in that activity.
So let's think for a few moments about the maintenance check for the breaks.
What would you do? How would you check if the breaks are okay or not?
Well, mechanics tell us that if you're applying pressure to the breaks and you find the steering wheel is starting to shake,
that's a sign that maybe they need attention.
Or if you apply pressure to the breaks and the vehicle starts to veer off to one side, again, not a good sign.
Or as you press the brake pedal, if you find there's very little resistance and you have to start pumping it, again, that's a problem.
And of course, like with the engine, if you start to hear strange grinding noises, that is never a good sign isn't.
Well, what about our fear of Jehovah?
How can we test whether or not our fear of Jehovah is at the right level?
Well, we know that Satan and his world constantly throw things at us, temptations, wrong thinking, and so on.
So it's just like you're driving in a vehicle and someone jumps out in front of you on animal runs across the road, that's when we need those breaks.
But how do we apply them?
How does our godly fear help us?
Well, let's turn to the book of 2 Corinthians and see a very interesting point that is mentioned to the brothers back there in Corinth.
So 2 Corinthians chapter 10, and we're going to look at verse 5.
Now, the context of this chapter is where Paul is talking about wrong teachings.
But the principle, as outlined in this verse, can be applied also to our reaction to wrong thoughts and immoral thoughts,
or all sorts of things that are not in harmony with Jehovah's will.
So let's see if we can see what the principle is.
2 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 5.
For we are overturning reasonings and every lofty thing raised up against the knowledge of God.
And we are bringing every thought into captivity to make it obedient to the Christ.
So do we see the point?
No matter what sort of thought it is, if it's an immoral thought,
a temptation to do something wrong, something that's not neutral with regard to the political situation,
what does it say here? We have to react quickly. It's just as if we put on the brakes.
Yes, we have to overturn all these sort of things that could be going on in our mind.
So obviously it's important for us to test our Godly fear in the sense of thinking,
how do I normally react?
If I'm faced with a situation that perhaps tempts me, am I quick to react?
Do the brakes work properly or is my Godly fear compromised?
An interesting question.
Also another illustration, just imagine that in your car you find a whole lot of poisonous spiders.
Well that's not good, isn't?
Of course you get someone to help you get rid of those spiders.
Now after you've paid that person to do the job, how would you feel if they said,
well we got most of them, it could be one or two left.
I don't think you'd be very happy, would you?
Because you won all of those poisonous spiders out of the car.
But what does it tell us here in verse 5?
It says we have to get all the things that are out of harmony with Jehovah under control.
Yes, we could find that even though most of the things are under control,
there could be just a few areas where we haven't got them under control.
It could even be that as if we're going in the wrong direction.
Well what do you need to do if you find out you're driving on the highway in the wrong direction?
Stop, turn around and go the opposite direction.
So isn't that exactly what we should do when it comes to this matter of checking our Godly fear?
Yes, if we see that in any way we're a little slow in reacting
when immoral temptations come our way or other wrong thinking,
then we need to strengthen our fear for Jehovah.
Yes, our fear of Jehovah helps us to resist these things.
Now what's something that can help to strengthen our fear of Jehovah?
Well again the Bible gives us an indication.
This time we find it in the book of Proverbs.
Proverbs chapter 8 and verse 13.
And you'll notice this is a little definitional formula for us.
The fear of Jehovah means the hating of bad.
So what is it that can help us strengthen our fear of Jehovah?
We need to hate what is bad.
Now for a moment let me ask you this question.
Is there some type of food that you really hate?
I know I can think of a couple of things that I just,
I really can't eat and I hate them.
If someone tries to tempt you to eat that food,
are you going to give in easily?
Of course not, because you hate that type of food.
Well how much more important it is for us to develop within ourselves a hatred for what is bad.
Yes we have to make sure that when we see things that Jehovah hates,
that we feel the same way, that we don't accept them.
Never would we allow gradualism to change our feelings with regard to what Jehovah says is wrong.
Now as we read on looking back at Proverbs chapter 8 verse 13,
notice it says the fear of Jehovah means the hating of bad.
Then it says, I hate self-exaltation and pride and the evil way and perverse speech.
So we need to make sure that we take out of our hearts any sort of pride
that could interfere with our relationship with Jehovah.
That's very important and that's part of hating what Jehovah hates.
Just think for a moment, as we're doing this checklist to see how our fear of Jehovah is,
is it strong or weak?
We need to think about what things do I really feel proud about?
Is there something that deep inside you you feel?
Yes, I feel really proud about this.
We'll never forget David's son Absalom.
He was proud about his hair.
But in the end it was his hair that goes into the problem and he ended up dying
because of his hair being caught in the branches.
So never would we want to be like Absalom
and allow the thing that we are proud of to actually cause us a serious problem.
So that's been interesting, hasn't it?
Looking at a second comparison between the maintenance of a car
and the maintenance of our Godly fear.
Just like the brakes, Godly fear can help us to stop before we do something
that would displace Jehovah.
Now of course, when we're thinking of this matter of comparing the maintenance of a vehicle
with the maintenance of our spirituality,
there are so many different comparisons that we could make.
And your mind's probably already going there thinking of,
well, will we make this comparison or that one?
But we only have time for one more comparison.
And you probably won't think of the one that we're going to talk about.
That is the horn.
You see in some parts of the world drivers say the horn is just as important as the brakes.
Why?
Because they need to let people know they're driving along the road.
It could be someone is beside them and they're about to change lanes and crash into them.
Well, the horn can help.
Or it could be someone is distracted and they're crossing the road.
Again, the horn will help.
The horn used correctly can save lives.
So what do you think we're going to compare the horn to with regard to our spiritual activities?
Well, if we read 1 Timothy together,
1 Timothy chapter 4 and verse 16,
we'll see what the comparison is.
1 Timothy chapter 4 and verse 16.
Pay constant attention to yourself and to your teaching.
Persevere in these things.
For by doing this, you will save both yourself and those who listen to you.
So we could say that just as a horn is important with regard to a vehicle,
likewise, our sounding out the message of the good news,
out teaching others and telling them about the nearness of your harvest day can result in lives being saved.
But now, if you were to check a horn,
what would you be looking for or pass more importantly listening to?
Well, for a start, you'd try to test the horn and honk it.
Now, if the no sound comes out, you know you have a problem.
Or on the other hand, if the sound is too soft that nobody can hear it,
that likewise is a problem.
So what about us?
Do we need to think about how our proclamation of the good news is?
Yes.
Let's take not just the normal activities we're involved with without preaching work,
but what about informal witnessing?
Do you see the opportunity?
Do you think, yes, I need to talk to this person and nothing happens.
The horns are working in a symbolic sense.
Or perhaps we do have the opportunity and we take it,
but the message is not clear.
So persons don't really understand what we're saying.
So if either of those were the case,
we'd need to see that maintenance is required with regard to this symbolic horn.
What would we do?
Well, it could involve praying to Jehovah for courage,
here's boldness to be able to witness to others,
whether it's informally telephone witnessing or other forms of witnessing.
And then if we're not so clear or coherent with regard to how we present the message,
how important it is for us to practice ahead of time,
to have special sessions where we practice what we'll say,
and then this way we can be ready to give a clear message to those who listen.
Well, that's been a very interesting exercise, hasn't it?
What did we see?
If we're using this comparison, this illustration of a vehicle,
we could say that the engine of a vehicle is like our godly devotion.
Our devotion of Jehovah needs to come from our hearts.
And the brakes of a vehicle we could liken to our fear of Jehovah.
Yes, if we hate what is bad the same as Jehovah does,
it will stop us just like brakes do.
And then finally we discuss this matter of having a horn that sounds the message properly.
Yes, we need to make sure that we ask Jehovah's help to maintain our witnessing
in such a way that we can clearly help others to hear the message.
So as we've gone through this, I'm sure, as we've already mentioned,
you can think of many other comparisons.
But the point is, a wise driver does not just drive his car or motorbike
or whatever vehicle it is.
A wise driver also checks to make sure that the vehicle is safe to use.
So likewise, for us as 2 Corinthians 13 verse 5 says,
we need to keep testing.
Yes, we need to keep proving that we are in the faith.
In other words, keep checking that we really are Christians,
that we are really living up to what we believe and what we teach others to do.
But remember, what is it that can be a problem for us?
Well, again, if we turn to the book of Corinthians this time,
1 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 12,
we'll see what the problem can be.
That's 1 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 12.
Let the one who thinks he is standing aware that he does not fall.
Yes, just thinking everything is okay.
There's no problems thinking that we're just going on fine
without testing ourselves and proving that we're in the truth.
That can be a problem.
Just like lack of maintenance to a vehicle can result in not only damage
with regard to the vehicle, but also loss of life.
How important than it is that we continue to keep testing.
Whether or not we are in the faith or in the truth.
So if we do these tests regularly and we check to see,
how is our godly devotion going, how is our fear of Jehovah,
our hatred for what is bad, how is our sounding out of the message going?
If we see some weaknesses, what do we need to do?
Well, our final scripture takes us back to our theme scripture.
Remember that was 2 Corinthians chapter 13.
And verse 5 is where it says keep testing, keep proving
that you yourselves, what you yourselves are.
But then if we look down a little further to verse 11,
we'll notice what it tells us that we need to do if we see some problems.
In verse 11 it tells us finally brothers continue to rejoice to be re-adjusted.
Now what does this mean to be re-adjusted?
Well, if you look up at verse 9 you see the same expression is used there at the end of verse 9.
And the study note to that verse tells us this.
It says the word is used to describe the restoring of something to a proper condition.
For instance at Matthew 421, the word is used to describe mending nets.
So nets that are damaged or have holes in them, mending them is just like re-adjusting them.
Ecalation 6.1 the same verb is used of the need to re-adjust spiritually a fellow believer who has taken a false step.
The term is sometimes used in medical text to describe the setting of a barn, a limb or a joint.
So what's the point?
If we do this checklist, go through it and we see that somehow our godly devotion is not as strong as it should be.
We're just doing things out of routine but our love for Jehovah is no longer strong.
Or if we find that our fear of Jehovah is not stopping us from doing what is wrong.
Or if we're finding that we just are not thoroughly bearing witness to the good news.
Then we need to take action.
What does it involve?
Well, as it says here, first of all identifying what the problem is, then re-adjusting, repairing and in some places replacing activities.
Now brothers and sisters, let's always remember no matter how long we've been in the truth, no matter what privileges we have.
We need to keep looking at that checklist.
Yes, we need to keep testing and proving that we are in the faith.